0:00
[SOUND] In this lecture we give an overview of Text Mining and Analytics.
Play video starting at ::13 and follow transcript0:13
First, let's define the term text mining, and the term text analytics. The title of this course is called Text Mining and Analytics.
Play video starting at ::25 and follow transcript0:25
But the two terms text mining, and text analytics are actually roughly the same.
Play video starting at ::32 and follow transcript0:32
So we are not really going to really distinguish them, and we're going to use them interchangeably. But the reason that we have chosen to use both terms in the title is because there is also some subtle difference, if you look at the two phrases literally.
Play video starting at ::52 and follow transcript0:52
Mining emphasizes more on the process. So it gives us a error rate medical view of the problem. Analytics, on the other hand emphasizes more on the result,
Play video starting at :1:7 and follow transcript1:07
or having a problem in mind. We are going to look at text data to help us solve a problem.
Play video starting at :1:16 and follow transcript1:16
But again as I said, we can treat these two terms roughly the same.
Play video starting at :1:21 and follow transcript1:21
And I think in the literature you probably will find the same. So we're not going to really distinguish that in the course.
Play video starting at :1:29 and follow transcript1:29
Both text mining and text analytics mean that we want to turn text data into high quality information, or actionable knowledge.
Play video starting at :1:42 and follow transcript1:42
So in both cases, we
Play video starting at :1:45 and follow transcript1:45
have the problem of dealing with a lot of text data and we hope to. Turn these text data into something more useful to us than the raw text data.
Play video starting at :1:57 and follow transcript1:57
And here we distinguish two different results. One is high-quality information, the other is actionable knowledge.
Play video starting at :2:5 and follow transcript2:05
Sometimes the boundary between the two is not so clear.
Play video starting at :2:9 and follow transcript2:09
But I also want to say a little bit about
Play video starting at :2:12 and follow transcript2:12
these two different angles of the result of text field mining.
Play video starting at :2:19 and follow transcript2:19
In the case of high quality information, we refer to more concise information about the topic.
Play video starting at :2:28 and follow transcript2:28
Which might be much easier for humans to digest than the raw text data. For example, you might face a lot of reviews of a product.
Play video starting at :2:38 and follow transcript2:38
A more concise form of information would be a very concise summary of the major opinions about the features of the product. Positive about, let's say battery life of a laptop.
Play video starting at :2:53 and follow transcript2:53
Now this kind of results are very useful to help people digest the text data.
Play video starting at :2:59 and follow transcript2:59
And so this is to minimize a human effort in consuming text data in some sense.
Play video starting at :3:6 and follow transcript3:06
The other kind of output is actually more knowledge. Here we emphasize the utility of the information or knowledge we discover from text data.
Play video starting at :3:18 and follow transcript3:18
It's actionable knowledge for some decision problem, or some actions to take.
Play video starting at :3:24 and follow transcript3:24
For example, we might be able to determine which product is more appealing to us, or a better choice for a shocking decision.
Play video starting at :3:38 and follow transcript3:38
Now, such an outcome could be called actionable knowledge, because a consumer can take the knowledge and make a decision, and act on it. So, in this case text mining supplies knowledge for optimal decision making. But again, the two are not so clearly distinguished, so we don't necessarily have to make a distinction.
Play video starting at :4:6 and follow transcript4:06
Text mining is also related to text retrieval, which is a essential component in many text mining systems.
Play video starting at :4:15 and follow transcript4:15
Now, text retrieval refers to finding relevant information from a large amount of text data.
Play video starting at :4:24 and follow transcript4:24
So I've taught another separate MOOC on text retrieval and search engines.
Play video starting at :4:31 and follow transcript4:31
Where we discussed various techniques for text retrieval.
Play video starting at :4:36 and follow transcript4:36
If you have taken that MOOC, and you will find some overlap.
Play video starting at :4:42 and follow transcript4:42
And it will be useful To know the background of text retrieval of understanding some of the topics in text mining.
Play video starting at :4:51 and follow transcript4:51
But, if you have not taken that MOOC, it's also fine because in this MOOC on text mining and analytics, we're going to repeat some of the key concepts that are relevant for text mining. But they're at the high level and they also explain the relation between text retrieval and text mining.
Play video starting at :5:12 and follow transcript5:12
Text retrieval is very useful for text mining in two ways. First, text retrieval can be a preprocessor for text mining. Meaning that it can help us turn big text data into a relatively small amount of most relevant text data. Which is often what's needed for solving a particular problem.
Play video starting at :5:36 and follow transcript5:36
And in this sense, text retrieval also helps minimize human effort.
Play video starting at :5:43 and follow transcript5:43
Text retrieval is also needed for knowledge provenance. And this roughly corresponds to the interpretation of text mining as turning text data into actionable knowledge. Once we find the patterns in text data, or actionable knowledge, we generally would have to verify the knowledge. By looking at the original text data. So the users would have to have some text retrieval support, go back to the original text data to interpret the pattern or to better understand an analogy or to verify whether a pattern is really reliable. So this is a high level introduction to the concept of text mining, and the relationship between text mining and retrieval.
Play video starting at :6:32 and follow transcript6:32
Next, let's talk about text data as a special kind of data.
Play video starting at :6:39 and follow transcript6:39
Now it's interesting to view text data as data generated by humans as subjective sensors.
Play video starting at :6:53 and follow transcript6:53
So, this slide shows an analogy between text data and non-text data. And between humans as subjective sensors and physical sensors, such as a network sensor or a thermometer.
Play video starting at :7:16 and follow transcript7:16
So in general a sensor would monitor the real world in some way. It would sense some signal from the real world, and then would report the signal as data, in various forms. For example, a thermometer would watch the temperature of real world and then we report the temperature being a particular format.
Play video starting at :7:44 and follow transcript7:44
Similarly, a geo sensor would sense the location and then report. The location specification, for example, in the form of longitude value and latitude value. A network sends over the monitor network traffic, or activities in the network and are reported. Some digital format of data. Similarly we can think of humans as subjective sensors. That will observe the real world and from some perspective. And then humans will express what they have observed in the form of text data. So, in this sense, human is actually a subjective sensor that would also sense what's happening in the world and then express what's observed in the form of data, in this case, text data. Now, looking at the text data in this way has an advantage of being able to integrate all types of data together. And that's indeed needed in most data mining problems.
Play video starting at :8:56 and follow transcript8:56
So here we are looking at the general problem of data mining.
Play video starting at :9:2 and follow transcript9:02
And in general we would Be dealing with a lot of data about our world that are related to a problem. And in general it will be dealing with both non-text data and text data. And of course the non-text data are usually produced by physical senses. And those non-text data can be also of different formats.
Play video starting at :9:27 and follow transcript9:27
Numerical data, categorical, or relational data, or multi-media data like video or speech.
Play video starting at :9:36 and follow transcript9:36
So, these non text data are often very important in some problems. But text data is also very important, mostly because they contain a lot of symmetrical content. And they often contain knowledge about the users, especially preferences and opinions of users.
Play video starting at :10:1 and follow transcript10:01
So, but by treating text data as the data observed from human sensors, we can treat all this data together in the same framework. So the data mining problem is basically to turn such data, turn all the data in your actionable knowledge to that we can take advantage of it to change the real world of course for better. So this means the data mining problem is basically taking a lot of data as input and giving actionable knowledge as output. Inside of the data mining module, you can also see we have a number of different kind of mining algorithms. And this is because, for different kinds of data, we generally need different algorithms for mining the data.
Play video starting at :10:56 and follow transcript10:56
For example, video data might require computer vision to understand video content. And that would facilitate the more effective mining. And we also have a lot of general algorithms that are applicable to all kinds of data and those algorithms, of course, are very useful. Although, for a particular kind of data, we generally want to also develop a special algorithm. So this course will cover specialized algorithms that are particularly useful for mining text data. [MUSIC]0:00
[SOUND] So, looking at the text mining problem more closely, we see that the problem is similar to general data mining, except that we'll be focusing more on text data.
Play video starting at ::21 and follow transcript0:21
And we're going to have text mining algorithms to help us to turn text data into actionable knowledge that we can use in real world, especially for decision making, or for completing whatever tasks that require text data to support. Because, in general, in many real world problems of data mining we also tend to have other kinds of data that are non-textual. So a more general picture would be to include non-text data as well.
Play video starting at ::56 and follow transcript0:56
And for this reason we might be concerned with joint mining of text and non-text data. And so in this course we're going to focus more on text mining, but we're also going to also touch how do to joint analysis of both text data and non-text data. With this problem definition we can now look at the landscape of the topics in text mining and analytics.
Play video starting at :1:21 and follow transcript1:21
Now this slide shows the process of generating text data in more detail.
Play video starting at :1:27 and follow transcript1:27
More specifically, a human sensor or human observer would look at the word from some perspective.
Play video starting at :1:34 and follow transcript1:34
Different people would be looking at the world from different angles and they'll pay attention to different things. The same person at different times might also pay attention to different aspects of the observed world. And so the humans are able to perceive the world from some perspective. And that human, the sensor, would then form a view of the world. And that can be called the Observed World. Of course, this would be different from the Real World because of the perspective that the person has taken can often be biased also.
Play video starting at :2:16 and follow transcript2:16
Now the Observed World can be represented as, for example, entity-relation graphs or in a more general way, using knowledge representation language. But in general, this is basically what a person has in mind about the world. And we don't really know what exactly it looks like, of course. But then the human would express what the person has observed using a natural language, such as English. And the result is text data.
Play video starting at :2:55 and follow transcript2:55
Of course a person could have used a different language to express what he or she has observed. In that case we might have text data of mixed languages or different languages.
Play video starting at :3:10 and follow transcript3:10
The main goal of text mining Is actually to revert this process of generating text data. We hope to be able to uncover some aspect in this process.
Play video starting at :3:28 and follow transcript3:28
Specifically, we can think about mining, for example, knowledge about the language.
Play video starting at :3:35 and follow transcript3:35
And that means by looking at text data in English, we may be able to discover something about English, some usage of English, some patterns of English.
Play video starting at :3:47 and follow transcript3:47
So this is one type of mining problems, where the result is some knowledge about language which may be useful in various ways.
Play video starting at :3:58 and follow transcript3:58
If you look at the picture, we can also then mine knowledge about the observed world. And so this has much to do with mining the content of text data.
Play video starting at :4:11 and follow transcript4:11
We're going to look at what the text data are about, and then try to get the essence of it or extracting high quality information about a particular aspect of the world that we're interested in.
Play video starting at :4:26 and follow transcript4:26
For example, everything that has been said about a particular person or a particular entity. And this can be regarded as mining content to describe the observed world in the user's mind or the person's mind.
Play video starting at :4:45 and follow transcript4:45
If you look further, then you can also imagine we can mine knowledge about this observer, himself or herself. So this has also to do with using text data to infer some properties of this person.
Play video starting at :5:3 and follow transcript5:03
And these properties could include the mood of the person or sentiment of the person.
Play video starting at :5:10 and follow transcript5:10
And note that we distinguish the observed word from the person because text data can't describe what the person has observed in an objective way. But the description can be also subjected with sentiment and so, in general, you can imagine the text data would contain some factual descriptions of the world plus some subjective comments. So that's why it's also possible to do text mining to mine knowledge about the observer. Finally, if you look at the picture to the left side of this picture, then you can see we can certainly also say something about the real world. Right? So indeed we can do text mining to infer other real world variables. And this is often called a predictive analytics.
Play video starting at :6: and follow transcript6:00
And we want to predict the value of certain interesting variable. So, this picture basically covered multiple types of knowledge that we can mine from text in general.
Play video starting at :6:14 and follow transcript6:14
When we infer other real world variables we could also use some of the results from mining text data as intermediate results to help the prediction. For example, after we mine the content of text data we might generate some summary of content. And that summary could be then used to help us predict the variables of the real world. Now of course this is still generated from the original text data, but I want to emphasize here that often the processing of text data to generate some features that can help with the prediction is very important.
Play video starting at :7:4 and follow transcript7:04
And that's why here we show the results of some other mining tasks, including mining the content of text data and mining knowledge about the observer, can all be very helpful for prediction.
Play video starting at :7:21 and follow transcript7:21
In fact, when we have non-text data, we could also use the non-text data to help prediction, and of course it depends on the problem. In general, non-text data can be very important for such prediction tasks. For example, if you want to predict stock prices or changes of stock prices based on discussion in the news articles or in social media, then this is an example of using text data to predict some other real world variables. But in this case, obviously, the historical stock price data would be very important for this prediction. And so that's an example of non-text data that would be very useful for the prediction. And we're going to combine both kinds of data to make the prediction. Now non-text data can be also used for analyzing text by supplying context.
Play video starting at :8:25 and follow transcript8:25
When we look at the text data alone, we'll be mostly looking at the content and/or opinions expressed in the text.
Play video starting at :8:32 and follow transcript8:32
But text data generally also has context associated.
Play video starting at :8:37 and follow transcript8:37
For example, the time and the location that associated are with the text data. And these are useful context information.
Play video starting at :8:48 and follow transcript8:48
And the context can provide interesting angles for analyzing text data. For example, we might partition text data into different time periods because of the availability of the time. Now we can analyze text data in each time period and then make a comparison. Similarly we can partition text data based on locations or any meta data that's associated to form interesting comparisons in areas. So, in this sense, non-text data can actually provide interesting angles or perspectives for text data analysis. And it can help us make context-sensitive analysis of content or the language usage or
Play video starting at :9:36 and follow transcript9:36
the opinions about the observer or the authors of text data. We could analyze the sentiment in different contexts. So this is a fairly general landscape of the topics in text mining and analytics. In this course we're going to selectively cover some of those topics. We actually hope to cover most of these general topics.
Play video starting at :10:6 and follow transcript10:06
First we're going to cover natural language processing very briefly because this has to do with understanding text data and this determines how we can represent text data for text mining. Second, we're going to talk about how to mine word associations from text data. And word associations is a form of use for lexical knowledge about a language. Third, we're going to talk about topic mining and analysis. And this is only one way to analyze content of text, but it's a very useful ways of analyzing content. It's also one of the most useful techniques in text mining.
Play video starting at :10:53 and follow transcript10:53
Then we're going to talk about opinion mining and sentiment analysis. So this can be regarded as one example of mining knowledge about the observer.
Play video starting at :11:7 and follow transcript11:07
And finally we're going to cover text-based prediction problems where we try to predict some real world variable based on text data.
Play video starting at :11:17 and follow transcript11:17
So this slide also serves as a road map for this course. And we're going to use this as an outline for the topics that we'll cover in the rest of this course. [MUSIC]0:00
[SOUND]
Play video starting at ::9 and follow transcript0:09
This lecture is about natural language content analysis. Natural language content analysis is the foundation of text mining. So we're going to first talk about this.
Play video starting at ::24 and follow transcript0:24
And in particular, natural language processing with a factor how we can present text data.
Play video starting at ::33 and follow transcript0:33
And this determines what algorithms can be used to analyze and mine text data.
Play video starting at ::40 and follow transcript0:40
We're going to take a look at the basic concepts in natural language first.
Play video starting at ::46 and follow transcript0:46
And I'm going to explain these concepts using a similar example that you've all seen here. A dog is chasing a boy on the playground. Now this is a very simple sentence. When we read such a sentence we don't have to think about it to get the meaning of it. But when a computer has to understand the sentence, the computer has to go through several steps.
Play video starting at :1:13 and follow transcript1:13
First, the computer needs to know what are the words, how to segment the words in English. And this is very easy, we can just look at the space. And then the computer will need the know the categories of these words, syntactical categories. So for example, dog is a noun, chasing's a verb, boy is another noun etc. And this is called a Lexical analysis. In particular, tagging these words with these syntactic categories is called a part-of-speech tagging.
Play video starting at :1:45 and follow transcript1:45
After that the computer also needs to figure out the relationship between these words. So a and dog would form a noun phrase. On the playground would be a prepositional phrase, etc. And there is certain way for them to be connected together in order for them to create meaning. Some other combinations may not make sense.
Play video starting at :2:7 and follow transcript2:07
And this is called syntactical parsing, or syntactical analysis, parsing of a natural language sentence. The outcome is a parse tree that you are seeing here. That tells us the structure of the sentence, so that we know how we can interpret this sentence. But this is not semantics yet. So in order to get the meaning we would have to map these phrases and these structures into some real world antithesis that we have in our mind. So dog is a concept that we know, and boy is a concept that we know. So connecting these phrases that we know is understanding.
Play video starting at :2:52 and follow transcript2:52
Now for a computer, would have to formally represent these entities by using symbols. So dog, d1 means d1 is a dog.
Play video starting at :3:4 and follow transcript3:04
Boy, b1 means b1 refers to a boy etc. And also represents the chasing action as a predicate. So, chasing is a predicate here with three arguments, d1, b1, and p1. Which is playground. So this formal rendition of the semantics of this sentence. Once we reach that level of understanding, we might also make inferences. For example, if we assume there's a rule that says if someone's being chased then the person can get scared, then we can infer this boy might be scared. This is the inferred meaning, based on additional knowledge. And finally, we might even further infer what this sentence is requesting, or why the person who say it in a sentence, is saying the sentence. And so, this has to do with purpose of saying the sentence. This is called speech act analysis or pragmatic analysis. Which first to the use of language. So, in this case a person saying this may be reminding another person to bring back the dog.
Play video starting at :4:35 and follow transcript4:35
So this means when saying a sentence, the person actually takes an action. So the action here is to make a request.
Play video starting at :4:46 and follow transcript4:46
Now, this slide clearly shows that in order to really understand a sentence there are a lot of things that a computer has to do. Now, in general it's very hard for a computer will do everything, especially if you would want it to do everything correctly. This is very difficult.
Play video starting at :5:8 and follow transcript5:08
Now, the main reason why natural language processing is very difficult, it's because it's designed it will make human communications efficient.
Play video starting at :5:15 and follow transcript5:15
As a result, for example, with only a lot of common sense knowledge.
Play video starting at :5:21 and follow transcript5:21
Because we assume all of us have this knowledge, there's no need to encode this knowledge.
Play video starting at :5:29 and follow transcript5:29
That makes communication efficient.
Play video starting at :5:32 and follow transcript5:32
We also keep a lot of ambiguities, like, ambiguities of words.
Play video starting at :5:39 and follow transcript5:39
And this is again, because we assume we have the ability to disambiguate the word. So, there's no problem with having the same word to mean possibly different things in different context.
Play video starting at :5:52 and follow transcript5:52
Yet for a computer this would be very difficult because a computer does not have the common sense knowledge that we do. So the computer will be confused indeed. And this makes it hard for natural language processing. Indeed, it makes it very hard for every step in the slide that I showed you earlier.
Play video starting at :6:16 and follow transcript6:16
Ambiguity is a main killer. Meaning that in every step there are multiple choices, and the computer would have to decide whats the right choice and that decision can be very difficult as you will see also in a moment.
Play video starting at :6:31 and follow transcript6:31
And in general, we need common sense reasoning in order to fully understand the natural language. And computers today don't yet have that. That's why it's very hard for computers to precisely understand the natural language at this point.
Play video starting at :6:48 and follow transcript6:48
So here are some specific examples of challenges. Think about the world-level ambiguity. A word like design can be a noun or a verb, so we've got ambiguous part of speech tag.
Play video starting at :7: and follow transcript7:00
Root also has multiple meanings, it can be of mathematical sense, like in the square of, or can be root of a plant.
Play video starting at :7:12 and follow transcript7:12
Syntactic ambiguity refers to different interpretations
Play video starting at :7:19 and follow transcript7:19
of a sentence in terms structures. So for example, natural language processing can actually be interpreted in two ways.
Play video starting at :7:28 and follow transcript7:28
So one is the ordinary meaning that we will be getting as we're talking about this topic. So, it's processing of natural language. But there's is also another possible interpretation which is to say language processing is natural.
Play video starting at :7:48 and follow transcript7:48
Now we don't generally have this problem, but imagine for the computer to determine the structure, the computer would have to make a choice between the two.
Play video starting at :7:59 and follow transcript7:59
Another classic example is a man saw a boy with a telescope. And this ambiguity lies in the question who had the telescope? This is called a prepositional phrase attachment ambiguity.
Play video starting at :8:14 and follow transcript8:14
Meaning where to attach this prepositional phrase with the telescope. Should it modify the boy? Or should it be modifying, saw, the verb. Another problem is anaphora resolution. In John persuaded Bill to buy a TV for himself. Does himself refer to John or Bill?
Play video starting at :8:39 and follow transcript8:39
Presupposition is another difficulty. He has quit smoking implies that he smoked before, and we need to have such a knowledge in order to understand the languages.
Play video starting at :8:52 and follow transcript8:52
Because of these problems, the state of the art natural language processing techniques can not do anything perfectly. Even for the simplest part of speech tagging, we still can not solve the whole problem. The accuracy that are listed here, which is about 97%, was just taken from some studies earlier.
Play video starting at :9:17 and follow transcript9:17
And these studies obviously have to be using particular data sets so the numbers here are not really meaningful if you take it out of the context of the data set that are used for evaluation. But I show these numbers mainly to give you some sense about the accuracy, or how well we can do things like this. It doesn't mean any data set accuracy would be precisely 97%. But, in general, we can do parsing speech tagging fairly well although not perfect.
Play video starting at :9:53 and follow transcript9:53
Parsing would be more difficult, but for partial parsing, meaning to get some phrases correct, we can probably achieve 90% or better accuracy.
Play video starting at :10:6 and follow transcript10:06
But to get the complete parse tree correctly is still very, very difficult.
Play video starting at :10:13 and follow transcript10:13
For semantic analysis, we can also do some aspects of semantic analysis, particularly, extraction of entities and relations. For example, recognizing this is the person, that's a location, and this person and that person met in some place etc. We can also do word sense to some extent.
Play video starting at :10:38 and follow transcript10:38
The occurrence of root in this sentence refers to the mathematical sense etc. Sentiment analysis is another aspect of semantic analysis that we can do.
Play video starting at :10:50 and follow transcript10:50
That means we can tag the senses as generally positive when it's talking about the product or talking about the person.
Play video starting at :11:2 and follow transcript11:02
Inference, however, is very hard, and we generally cannot do that for any big domain and if it's only feasible for a very limited domain. And that's a generally difficult problem in artificial intelligence. Speech act analysis is also very difficult and we can only do this probably for very specialized cases. And with a lot of help from humans to annotate enough data for the computers to learn from.
Play video starting at :11:36 and follow transcript11:36
So the slide also shows that computers are far from being able to understand natural language precisely. And that also explains why the text mining problem is difficult. Because we cannot rely on mechanical approaches or computational methods to understand the language precisely. Therefore, we have to use whatever we have today. A particular statistical machine learning method of statistical analysis methods to try to get as much meaning out from the text as possible. And, later you will see that there are actually
Play video starting at :12:20 and follow transcript12:20
many such algorithms that can indeed extract interesting model from text even though we cannot really fully understand it. Meaning of all the natural language sentences precisely. [MUSIC]